# Probability

Histrogram equalization is built upon two concepts : probability mass function(PMF) &  cumulative distributive function(CDF).

## Probability Mass Function (PMF)

The probability that a discrete random variable X takes on a particular value x, that is, P(X = x), is frequently denoted f(x). The function f(x) is typically called the probability mass function.

### Calculating PMF

For example, an outcome of a dice has only 6 possible values.

Hence, by calculating probability of each value a random variable attains you effectively calculating a PMS for that variable.

e.g. In case of a dice each value [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] has probability 1/6. Hence PMS if X belongs [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] is 1/6 for every other value of X it is 0.

[**Reference taken from Quora**](https://www.quora.com/How-can-you-calculate-probability-mass-function)

## Cumulative Distributive Function (CDF)

The PMF is one way to describe the distribution of a discrete random variable.

### Definition

The cumulative distribution function (CDF) of random variable X is defined as
FX(x)=P(X≤x), for all x∈R.

### Calculating CDF

We already computed that the PDF of X is given by Pr(X = k) = 1/6 for k = 1,2,...,6. The CDF can be computed by summing these probabilities sequentially; we summarize as follows:

Pr(X ≤ 1) = 1/6

Pr(X ≤ 2) = 2/6

Pr(X ≤ 3) = 3/6

Pr(X ≤ 4) = 4/6

Pr(X ≤ 5) = 5/6

Pr(X ≤ 6) = 6/6 = 1

Notice that Pr(X ≤ x) = 0 for any x < 1 since X cannot take values less than 1. Also, notice that Pr(X ≤ x) = 1 for any x > 6. Finally, note that the probabilities Pr(X ≤ x) are constant on any interval of the form [k,k + 1) as required.

## PMF and CDF usage in histogram equalization

In histrogram equalization, first and second steps are PMF and CDF. As the name implies, we have to eqaulize every pixel of image. PMF helps us calculating the probability of each pixel. CDF gives us cumulative sum of these values. Then what? 

Read on next chapter!